Core Dev Call 15 (#33)
status-im/pm: notes/transcript15.md

 
Eric: Yeah. Or the other one would be to allow because right now you cannot send a message if you don't listen to to a topic but we could do a we could allow it for for this topic and just drop a copy of the message on that topic and never listen to it. We could effectively ignore it form for. Yeah that would be good I mean yeah anyway.

> Oskar: There was another point if it was a good point it was brought up which is the lack of engagement. Just process speaking I think that partitioning topics is like a great way to optimize the bad way from the second. It is a reasonable thing to do and it seems like something that generally could be done local sort of local form decision-making within the Swarm. I think that concern might be when it comes to something that breaks the protocol so that it impacts sort of more groups of people and I think if that is made more clear or if we sort of we want to separate out all of this and have it be a sort of different cultural process and different technical process where we're changing the protocol and we need some form of consensus perhaps in these calls, perhaps in some other form. That's something we're going to work on over the next few weeks and months to sort of we have some haphazard documentation but bring it more together and also create this specs repository and then maybe we when we have questions like these, then we can bring them up in the core dev call as of come prepare with a proposal for changing some, the protocol in some way and then we can discuss it. I think that would separate out the things there are sort of swarm implementation specifics for certain trade-offs versus things that impact the entire protocol. And if people have any thoughts on that.

Reviewer: "Just process speaking I think that partitioning topics is like a great way to optimize the bad way from the second."

Looks like this phrase is not clear, maybe you can clarify it @oskarth in case it was mistranscribed?

Reviewer 2: I don't remember tbh

Reviewer 2: can probably be removed and still be somewhat understandable

Igor: I think that's a good idea in general. So we should probably do some some sort of list.

### 45:00 - 50:00

> Eric: I I don't have a thought but I'm wondering so how do we make this decision whether we accept break breaking protocol or not? How do we consider..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eric: I don't have a thought but I'm wondering so how do we make this decision whether we accept breaking protocol or not? How do we consider...
```

> Oskar: Yes so we'll have to figure out, I think that for those who been here for it for like a year or year n a half, we had the Swarm process and it's something like this but in a way like similar to the hyphen improvement process or bittorrent improvement or Bitcoin or EIPs or whatever and it says they're having a process like that where there's some form of consensus among some sort of core contributers or whatever it looks like and that will also be its own sort of SIP or whatever you want to call it. Atleast that's how I'm thinking about right now and I think it is a pretty scalable and and and tested process for protocol changes in general and something that's generally used. So that's how I imagined. Specifically how decision will be made or when something will move from draft is always something we can discuss further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oskar: Yes so we'll have to figure out, I think that for those who been here for it for like a year or year n a half, we had the Swarm process and it's something like this but in a way like similar to the hyphen improvement process or bittorrent improvement or Bitcoin or EIPs or whatever and it says they're having a process like that where there's some form of consensus among some sort of core contributers or whatever it looks like and that will also be its own sort of SIP or whatever you want to call it. Atleast that's how I'm thinking about right now and I think it is a pretty scalable and tested process for protocol changes in general and something that's generally used. So that's how I imagined. Specifically how decisions will be made or when something will move from draft is always something we can discuss further.
```

Ricardo: So it would also be possible to option to the users to opt-in this and also other protocol is not using it anymore. But of course this opt-in should be explaining the user what changes and what's why it's better, why  less privacy and etc.

> Oskar: So so this would be so this would be more about client implementers and then maybe it's the Status app would choose to expose such options but across I mean it's more amount of Status clients for example like BitTorrent they introduced deep support and all clients have pretty much implemented because it was useful and then you added like a private field to have private trackers and local peer discovery and these types of things and it's like enhancements but it's up to each client how you want to how do you want to deal with it and most clients will likely expose it in some way if you want to use THT and then there's all these considerations and so on. So that's  that in itself could be a local decision for the Status app and it would be separate from the protocol. So the idea is to think of them as two sort of separate animals kind of. That'll be a help in any insights or or thoughts you would like to add to this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oskar: So this would be more about client implementers and then maybe it's the Status app would choose to expose such options but across I mean it's more amount of Status clients for example like BitTorrent they introduced deep support and all clients have pretty much implemented because it was useful and then you added like a private field to have private trackers and local peer discovery and these types of things and it's like enhancements but it's up to each client how you want to how do you want to deal with it and most clients will likely expose it in some way if you want to use THT and then there's all these considerations and so on. So that's  that in itself could be a local decision for the Status app and it would be separate from the protocol. So the idea is to think of them as two sort of separate animals kind of. That'll be a help in any insights or or thoughts you would like to add to this.
```

> Jacek: Nothing new really. I mean we've talked before about make enshrining the protocol into a separate entity so that when you discuss a protocol change, you do so not from a Unicode perspective and not with a code mentality but rather with a protocol mentality. And I think I think we already agreed that moving to moving the protocol out from the codebase completely including all these little quirks would be the first step and then developing the protocol based on that document obviously with the reference implementation and so on. But like approaching it with this slightly more procedural approach which includes these various steps that that the teams and so on have and tips and whatever, gives it the appropriate social way so that everybody's on the same page and it also gives the community an opportunity to weigh in especially if if you consider that they might not be fluent in you know both called JavaScript, Clojure and in the rest of the technology stack that we happen to be using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jacek: Nothing new really. I mean we've talked before about make enshrining the protocol into a separate entity so that when you discuss a protocol change, you do so not from a Unicode perspective and not with a code mentality but rather with a protocol mentality. And I think I think we already agreed that moving the protocol out from the codebase completely including all these little quirks would be the first step and then developing the protocol based on that document obviously with the reference implementation and so on. But like approaching it with this slightly more procedural approach which includes these various steps that the teams and so on have and tips and whatever, gives it the appropriate social way so that everybody's on the same page and it also gives the community an opportunity to weigh in especially if you consider that they might not be fluent in you know both called JavaScript, Clojure and in the rest of the technology stack that we happen to be using.
```

Andrea: At the moment we have you know some you know fairly big issue with reliability. So adding device to device essentially communication not sure is a good idea. That's the thing you know like until we don’t know how to handle the outstanding issue this is just you know a bit dangerous I think.

Igor: Yeah I agree and it's not that we have a pressing need to fix this partitioning topic like this week or something. But with more users it is just more and more present. So it's just not that the current solution doesn't work, it just not scalable. So maybe we have some time to rethink it a bit to give it a bit more of a thought. But maybe we can..

Oskar: Let's let's rethink it we can have bring this us up in the next core dev call as well. See if we have progressed in some dimension.

Jacek: Coming back a little bit to the user letting the user choose, I generally would consider that as fairly dangerous because or like from a security point of view tends to be a bad way to do it. One creative idea is to establish much longer time horizons on how fast these things change, so that the community has time to critique and review the change that's coming. 

### 55:00 - 1:00:00

> Jacek: And then like it's a little bit similar if you look at the thing what we're doing there is basically did we call this the week subjectivity which is a way to deal with long range attacks and the working theory is here that if somebody does something obviously bad then over a long period of time, it's socially feasible to overcome this say years or a year, months whatever, like that but but a fairly long period where the bad behavior has time to establish itself and therefore would be known through outside means. If if we can. But what at least do basically is that the app needs to be able to support multiple protocols over extended period of time. And then the way to upgrade would well maybe we can hide it in an advanced option somewhere right but so that people can start trying these things and these new more efficient protocols for example but then also keep in mind when we develop things that that the overlap horizon or the overlap period should be considered to be fairly long and and and we should be able to provide you know a safer default for the user and then maybe switch that default and so on. And so as a way out from from from really bad decisions. I mean we do have the advantage that we're open and you know the code can be audited and so on, but then we also need this very long period of time for the information to seep out and sort of in case the code becomes tainted somehow, that there's time for this taint problem to become known even for people that are maybe not online all the time or more like you know that they know what kind of trend horizons we're looking at when we make these changes when they start using Dapps. So basically I know that alright if I start using status today, I know that for the sixth next six months, nothing's gonna change with the protocol and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jacek: And then like it's a little bit similar if you look at the thing what we're doing there is basically did we call this the week subjectivity which is a way to deal with long range attacks and the working theory is here that if somebody does something obviously bad then over a long period of time, it's socially feasible to overcome this say years or a year, months whatever, like that but a fairly long period where the bad behavior has time to establish itself and therefore would be known through outside means. If we can. But what at least do basically is that the app needs to be able to support multiple protocols over extended period of time. And then the way to upgrade would well maybe we can hide it in an advanced option somewhere right but so that people can start trying these things and these new more efficient protocols for example, but then also keep in mind when we develop things that the overlap horizon or the overlap period should be considered to be fairly long and and and we should be able to provide you know a safer default for the user and then maybe switch that default and so on. And so as a way out from from from really bad decisions. I mean we do have the advantage that we're open and you know the code can be audited and so on, but then we also need this very long period of time for the information to seep out and sort of in case the code becomes tainted somehow, that there's time for this taint problem to become known even for people that are maybe not online all the time or more like you know that they know what kind of trend horizons we're looking at when we make these changes when they start using Dapps. So basically I know that alright if I start using status today, I know that for the six months, nothing's gonna change with the protocol and so on.
```

Oskar: So I would suggest we move on. I think this requires maybe more effort. Maybe we could put together some different proposals and then have some pros and cons and also then we can bring it up in next core dev call. Because I think that there are several ideas and that go either ways but they might need to be fleshed out a bit more.

### 1:05:00 - 1:10:00

Oskar: whether it's sort of the timeframe recoverability or if we do a breaking change then should we have a path to recoverability, in some way we can limit the scope by creative solutions and so on. I think there is different sort of there's multiple options here that we can explore but it probably requires asynchronous effort.

Ricardo: Yeah I agree with you. I just wanted to know who we should talk with to discuss this later on.

Oskar: So I imagine Igor might want to do a few more runs on the post-mortem or whatever you want to call it pre-mortem, I don't know what you gonna call it, but then we can bring it up next core dev call and then we might we can also bring it up in a protocol call if that's interesting but I think.

> Ricardo: So basically use the Disqus post in this meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ricardo: So basically use the Discuss post in this meeting.
```

> Igor: yeah I think Disqus is a good start and then we'll figure out from there. Because it's already a discussion started so there is no point to switch it somewhere else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Igor: yeah I think Discuss is a good start and then we'll figure out from there. Because it's already a discussion started so there is no point to switch it somewhere else.
```

Oskar: All right. Cool. So we have maybe 20 more minutes So Ricardo, you had a brief announcement on topic democracy.

Ricardo: So tomorrow there is a meeting in the Status agenda that I'm going to present the swarm, what is the idea, that is being to the develop it in top democracy, basically how it works and why it works like this and so if you are interested in democracy and centralize the autonomous organizations and this can be used in many creative ways once it's created so might be interesting to many people.

> Oskar: Cool. Pedro you want to talk briefly about exposing cells goers in next package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oskar: Cool. Pedro you want to talk briefly about exposing status-go in a Nix package.
```

> Pedro: Yeah. So I think this is the the next logical step in terms of having reproducible builds. Right now we we host status code artifacts in digitalocean. So it's kind of a hand roll solution which really isn't required now that we have we hosted in this in this mix cache so we could just make status go another mix package and ideally also make the same the same approach that we took for status react does the same thing on status go so that people can just still do mix it up and mix takes care of all the dependencies and then that produces a next package which is uploaded to the next cache that we host and then that's what we use in Status react. So no more downloads during the the builds that are handled by us. It's a matter of consistency with all the other packages. I don't know if there's anything anything against this or if it's like logical for everyone. I don't know. It might be like for people who are working barely on Status Go that's maybe the people who will be more impacted by this. So it would just require that you do make shell and ensure that you're inside of this special shell from mix to build your app but it's not a big deal. You know from the experience with Status React, it's not a deal breaker. But I would be interested in hearing if there is anything against going forward with this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pedro: Yeah. So I think this is the the next logical step in terms of having reproducible builds. Right now we host status-go artifacts in DigitalOcean. So it's kind of a home-grown solution which really isn't required now that we host this Nix cache, so we could just make status-go another Nix package and ideally also make the same approach that we took for status-react and do the same thing on status-go so that people can just still mix it up and Nix takes care of all the dependencies and then that produces a Nix package which is uploaded to the Nix cache that we host and then that's what we use in status-react. So no more downloads during builds that are handled by us. It's a matter of consistency with all the other packages. I don't know if there's anything against this or if it's like logical for everyone. People in status-go daily will be the people who will be most impacted by this. So it would just require that you do `make shell` and ensure that you're inside of this special shell from Nix to build your app, but it's not a big deal. We know from the experience with status-react that it's not a deal breaker. But I would be interested in hearing if there is anything against going forward with this.
```

> Igor: No just one question. Is there so when we publish a new version it just get auto-published immediately or do it, how does it work because right now a publisher just when you have for instance and it's like there is no approval process, nothing like this and if we add it to the mix as a new version,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Igor: No just one question. Is there so when we publish a new version it just get auto-published immediately or how does it work? Because right now a publisher just when you have for instance and it's like there is no approval process, nothing like this, and if we add it to Nix as a new version...
```

> Pedro: Well in the recipe, So Status React it has these these mix files, so you would determine there one basically in the same way isn't where we change Status Go version file in Status React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pedro: Well in the recipe, status-react has these Nix files, and we would change the status-go version in these files instead of in `STATUS_GO_VERSION`.
```

### 1:10:00 - 1:15:00

> Pedro: Instead of doing it there you would do inside your mix recipe saying, “Okay, I want to use this hash of of telesco” and then it will either build it or download from the cache but it would do so in very reproducible way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pedro: Instead of doing it there you would do inside your Nix recipe saying, “Okay, I want to use this hash of status-go” and then it will either build it or download from the cache but it would do so in very reproducible way.
```

Igor: Okay so we are not independent, so it will build it in case there's this cache doesn't exist in this cache. Okay so it also solves the issue with your local builds right?

Pedro: Yeah if you want to test like your special branch in Status Go, then makes it easier also.

Igor: Then I don't say there is any reason not to do it.

Pedro: Okay cool. Okay so if there's no more input on this I'll move forward.

# Unicorn Update

Oskar: Unicorn update. Maybe Anna or Igor, do you want to take the things from the app point of view.

Anna: Yeah I guess, if you can hear me probably yes. So we like have the last change to be integrated at least for mobile app. Unfortunately for desktop I I will need Vitali's help to talk about the progress there because again we have desktop used to communicate and mobile. So for mobile we are almost ready. For desktop honestly I'm not sure yet. So if Vitali is in the meeting please tell about about it if not and probably will need to sync right after this. But again for desktop it's a bit easier because they don't need any Apple approval process in test flight etc. So they can they do have a bit more time to to make a release.

> Oskar: It's also fine like if it's not working right that's something that people can hack on during the day or just for today I'm afraid that if you don't have possibility to tear the custom but not on my server you will not be able to hack a lot in desktop in that day but yeah so I mean that during the day then people can add that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oskar: It's also fine like if it's not working right that's something that people can hack on during the day or just for today I'm afraid that if you don't have possibility to add the custom mail server you will not be able to hack a lot in desktop in that day but yeah so I mean that during the day then people can add that.
```

Igor: Yeah I had a proposal that since we wanted to discuss it like on Friday but since Oscar is here and everyone is here I want to do a proposal that we start this unicorn day not at midnight but at some time a bit later than this when most of the contributors are woken up at least maybe at 8 or 9 central european time to start the recording from there. Just to like because the first few hours would be the most.

### 1:15:00 - 1:20:00

Oskar: The proposal is 9 a.m. to UTC.

Igor: Oh, it’s 9 am, I thought it zero, it was like midnight.

> Oskar: Oh, it was 2 - sorry I I was I wrote two times. That's..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oskar: Oh, it was 2 - sorry I was I wrote two times. That's..
```

Pedro: Yeah I remember there was an issue yeah unfortunately it's been like three or four weeks since I last touched that's so I don't recall the exact reasons. But yeah there's there's a lot of situations which which can go wrong in the in triggering that but basically I need to have some time to to look into it, again and figure out what was the issue.

Anna: But I think we just we're trying to find the like someone who can add this separate extra step, a separate column for like ready to be ready for auto tests, and also only Oskar who has rights, I don't know..

Oskar: Wait wait. I cannot, you want a column in the QA.

Anna: yes.

Oskar: Okay. I think there should be a bunch of people Igor, I can help now but I think Igor and Jacob should also have permissions. Let me let me add it now. Could you could you message me what you wanted?

Anna: Okay yeah I look just let me also sync with Pedro it it was the final solution, because I remember it was like a step where I just I stopped following..

### 1:20:00 - 1:25:00

> Pedro: Okay and then we didn't also need to customize that column name in instead Status React reacts in dot github directory. bBut at least well instead of Atari is already in place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pedro: Okay and then we also need to customize that column name in instead Status React reacts in `.github` directory. But at least the means to do it are already in place.
```
